### Definition
    - Women in Computing at RIT. Our main focus as an organization is to help increase the amount of women in industry by providing early exposure to computer science, recruitment events for RIT, on campus social community and support network to help with retention, and professional opportunities. 
    - This organization is made up of students, staff, and alumni that are passionate about fostering a diverse and accepting environment for women in computing. Something worth noting is any person no mater their race, gender, sexual orientation, socio economic class, or major can be a member. 
    - I'd like us to reach out and form relationships with other diversity based organizations within the RIT community. By combining efforts we can accomplish even more! This can be improved upon by doing combined social events with other organizations as well as having beginner friendly technical talks and workshops to help teach non computing or new students about our field. This community is kind of interesting because we are a social organization to help increase diversity and acceptance with RIT and the computing field, as well as developing our professional careers and skills. 

### Size
    - Current our organization has around 40 or so active members.
    - I would like as many people to be a part of the community as possible! The larger the organization is the more that we can do to help others. From the time the organization started there were around ten or so active members (that was two years ago). There was a huge spike in this when there was a new full time director hired. At this time we also received a lab room inside of the computing college building to serve as a social space and head quarters for planning our main events. This can be improved by providing opportunities for students to learn, volunteer, and lead. It is important that ever person has something constructive to do. Otherwise they will feel like it is a waste of their time.
    - To help with our growing size we need to offer more volunteer programs so students have a way to give back, as well as offer development opportunities for them to grow their technical skill set and careers. 

### Resources
    - Currently we have a few tech talks each semester that are given by visiting companies. There is also a projects committee, however it is struggling for a clear sense of purpose and direction. 
    - We have weekly meetings and a hackathon, WicHacks. I'd like to revamp our projects committee. Currently there is a lack of technical development available. By providing this, members can gain extra skills as well as confidence to help pass challenging courses at RIT. I'd like to offer more technical talks during weekly meetings, as well as our normal weekly update meetings with some sort of talk. A lot of our members do attend WicHacks, but it would be cool to attend another hackathon as a group. This can be fixed through offering more talks and workshops, as well as encouraging new students to group up and learn new skills together. Maybe the committee head of WiCHacks or someone on the committee can encourage a group of students to get together and attend one.
    - Since we have such an age range of students and skills we need to create content to help newbies as well as our seasoned members. We will need to provide resources for people of all skill levels. 

### Accessibility
    - If you do not live on campus then attending each meeting may be difficult. However we do post the slides from weekly meetings on our Facebook group so people can be updated each week. There is also a monthly email sent out highlighting that months events. 
    - College students have a wide range of work hours, and some of our members coop/intern in different time zones so it is likely that our meetings Wednesday's at 6:30PM could be during someones work. RIT has a child care services (paid), WiC does not provide child care. I'm not sure how this could be improved upon, and I'm not sure what would be an ideal situation for this. Maybe making it known that interpreters are available on request. 

### Interests
    - Our community is made up mostly of computing students within RIT college of computing information science (GCCIS). That includes a wide range of majors such as CS, SE, IT, Security, HCI, Game Design and Development. In recent years we have gained more members from different majors including MIS which is in the business college. We plan on reaching out to involve the XD and design community at RIT. 
    - Open to any topic! Thats the best part. Everyone comes together because they enjoy being apart of a community and giving back to further the future of women in computing fields. I'd like students who are interested in computing no matter the major be involved with WiC! I think our organization will shift focus from outreach within the RIT community to doing more with schools and the city of Rochester to help bring access to computing to local students who would otherwise not receive education on this field.

### Goals
    - People get involved because its a great place to make friends, volunteer, and receive awesome swag/opportunities! Student goals range from trying to pass physics to graduating RIT. We do not offer any academic tutoring, however we have a vast professional network that many students have leveraged to get internships and full time job offers. 
    - Some members are more interested in technology than others. I believe this is because we do not currently foster that interested or provide many technical outlets. If we worked on this I think more members would inspire a passion for technology. One of our main goals is helping retention rates by fostering a community and support network for students. If we provide technical development outside of the classroom I think this will also help as students will build confidence in their abilities. 
    - Students get involved because they want to help foster an open minded all inclusive environment. Students are from all age ranges and have varying goals. Each student is interested in being part of or giving back to the community they are members of. Through WiC my goal would be for them to learn additional development skills outside of the classroom, as well as the newest tools and technologies companies have to offer.
    - Some goals and activities we can set for our community is more outreach to local schools teaching k-12 what computer science is. We can also have a goal to offer more technical workshops and supplementary classroom material for CS1 and 2 which appear to be the hardest courses students take. They have a hug drop out rate so I believe that by helping students learn the skills required for the class they will have the ability and the confidence to pass. Another activity would eventually be for members to have the ability to give their own talks, and encourage more students to go to conferences for their talks. 

### Location
    - We have weekly meetings in a classroom on campus, and during the week 9AM to 7PM our lab space is open as a social space to hangout between classes (sometimes in the later hours it is a quiet place to do work). We also have a Facebook group for all members to join and get updated with news as well as articles or resources shared by current members and alumni. Student parking, must have permit before 5PM otherwise free. RIT provides limited public transit around campus and around Rochester. Easily accessible to those on campus, and slightly more challenging for students off campus. The space is free to use. The lab space is not very big and is a safe space for students to socialize between classes. If students are being inappropriate they will be asked to leave. At max capacity it can fit about 15 people. There are some rolling chairs with a conference table as well as a bean bag, and two arm chairs. There is a water cooler, a Keurig machine, tons of leftover soda from past events and there always seems to be snacks in the cupboards because freshmen on meal plans have extra money they have to spend. 
    - Ideally for me we would have a larger space to operate out of. Currently our lab space is too small to fit even the most active members of the organization all at once, and we keep growing. It was very difficult for me to get the lab space from the school to begin with, and I'm not sure we will have many options. This makes having events even more important to help foster a sense of community since the communal space is too small to do that. If we focus more on making each meeting and event feeling as social and relaxed as spending time in the space is then I think it'll negate the need for more room. 

### Communication:
    - Slack, Facebook group, RIT Email, Twitter for events, and Instagram. Our projects committee has a GitHub organization but I am not aware of what it is used for.

### Culture:
    - One of our main goals as an organization is increasing diversity and open mindedness in the computing industry. We try to practice what we preach and that is why any student, no matter their major, race, sexual orientation, or gender can be a member. We have gotten some criticism for allowing male members however we strongly believe that if we are going to fix the problems in the computing industry then we are all going to need to work together! That being said, our upper class men (myself included) are all good friends and have known each other for years now. This can give new comers the vibe that we are clicky. We are going to try and fix this common critique by establishing lean in style groups at weekly meetings to help our new comers find their future friends! The circles will be lead by upper class men as well. 
    - If there is a disagreement it is usually discussed about by the committee heads and a decision is made once most everyone agrees. If it is a time sensitive decisions most likely it was not talked about collectively and will cause further arguments in the future. There are some problems going along with this right now amongst the new committee heads that took over, as well as the ones from last year. Two years ago when I myself was a committee head none of us got along. We then took this silly DISC leadership assessment to learn more about how each person makes decisions. It was surprisingly helpful and I learned the best ways to work with people depending on their DISC type. From there we were able to be extremely productive and grow the organization to the point of busting at the seems. I'd like each and every year of committee heads to do this because I believe it is helpful. Another problem that comes with this is how the committee heads are picked. Unfortunately I think a few people are doing this for selfish reasons instead of wanting to volunteer their time to give back to a community who’s vision they agree with. Its hard for people to make selfless decisions when their motivations are selfish.
    - As a seasoned member its difficult to watch the new leadership teams come in and not get anything productive done because they cant get over their own egos. I've worked with some of the new committee heads to help pass down knowledge to help prevent certain issues or how to handle situations. 