## Summary of Community

Even though our community is dedicated to diversity, we can always be more inclusive. We should reach out to other organizations on campus and combine efforts, especially if we have similar goals. We have a wide age range of members from 1st years to 5th years. This can be difficult to accommodate because we need to provide content and resources for many different skill sets. Right now we do not have very much technical skill development at any level, so I believe this is a big need for our community. Over the past three years we were able to establish a solid foundation and now we need to focus on building up from there. The fundamental structure of the organization is set in stone and we can begin providing more volunteer opportunities by running more code teaching workshops for local students, as well as providing skill development through weekly talks, and the Projects Committee. We currently do not have a strong line of communication as there hasn't been a strong need for it. We are going to begin pushing the Slack as we can have different channels for multiple committees and events which might better help people find something they are interested in. Our current culture is very socially driven. Many people join the organization with the goal of meeting new people and making friends. This is beneficial as it helps with retention as students have a positive experience with the organization and often bring additional friends to join. However, there can be a down side to this. At times we can appear to be cliche since all of us our friends. This is something that needs to be addressed but we aren't sure of a solution yet. We plan on trying to have smaller group sessions at general meetings which are lead by an upper class men or committee head to help break people up and have everyone meeting new people. A core value in our culture is volunteering. We as an organization have several events every month that require a lot of volunteers. Members on the whole seem to be interested in giving back and volunteering their time to help others. 
	TLDR: We need more technical development, and more things for people to do.

## Proposal

Campus experts seems to be the perfect solution to one of our main problems, and arguably the biggest; developing technical skills. Through the campus experts program I'll not only learn new technical skills myself, but some of the modules help teach public speaking and workshops. At our weekly meetings I can help run workshops to help develop technical or soft skill. For this school year 2017-18 we can start developing a tech focus in a way that includes all members, and exists at the core of our organization. Since each weekly meeting would be developing a new skill or learning about a new technology, members would be encouraged and rewarded for attending weekly meetings. 

In addition to helping plan and execute weekly talks and workshops, I want to reno the Project Committee. This committee has been placed on the back burned while the rest of the organization got a functioning structure. Since we've hit smooth sailing, its time to tackle the last 'problem' in the organization. I have a vision for the projects committee having a Year One project were first year students learn simple yet vital technical skills that they wont learn in the classroom such as web development, version control, and process. I'd like to teach how teach the essential for modern day web development such as React and Node. By learning these skills they not only can make their own personal projects, but will also be qualified for many internships. The Year One project would be run like a scrum team so that students can learn the process behind software development. We could even cover other methodologies like waterfall. Most importantly we'd cover version control, specifically git. I personally didn't learn about git until my second year. Knowing it would have saved me tons of time. By using GitHub students can build an online portfolio for companies to check out, as well as get involved in the open source community. 

I've mentioned two proposals for how to improve WiC and how being a campus expert would help with that. The most immediate one is developing and providing content to help develop the technical skills and knowledge of the organization at a whole. This may be slightly difficult as we have many 5th year students who have done many internships and are quite knowledgable, as well as students who might not have programed yet. I think something that might be useful is to adopt a Learn, Teach, Learn model. This is when someone who finds themselves to be an expert in something they learned, teach the group on the subject, then by teaching they too learn. I think this would leverage the varying skill set problem to our advantage. Students who have a more developed skill can give a talk or workshop on that. I can work with the students interested in doing this to help prepare them for giving a workshop or talk. 

For the next academic year we are planning on trying to expand our membership base. I think having tech talks will help draw people in as well as give them a reason to stay. 

One of our main goals is to bring people together, foster a diverse community, and help further career advancement for women in computing fields. I think having more workshops and talks we will accomplish this. The talks will attract more people to weekly meetings and give people something to talk about or bond over. In addition these talks will help increase the technical skills required to succeed in your career, as well as give you the confidence needed to excel in school. Not doing well at a technical skill can be very discouraging for new students (and even old), and setting learning as a precedent will help with this. 

## Proposal's Impact

- Target audience
  - Students who want to develop technical skills, as well as students who want the opportunity to teach what they have learned. 
- Community needs
  - This proposal addresses the issue of not being a technical enough organization, and offering very little, if any, technical development opportunities. 
- Resources
  - To accomplish this I need some ideas of workshops/talks to give. What skills would be most advantageous for people to learn, as well as those that are interesting. I also will need student volunteers who will want to give a talk.
  - I'll reach out to members to see if any are interested in giving a talk, as well as asking what skill do they wish they had known before going on their first coop/internship.  
- Media
  - This will be delivered at our weekly meetings through talks. 
  - To prepare for content delivery we will have people who are planning on giving a talk practice and go through a mini training to prepare for public speaking and running a workshop.
- Content knowledge
  - Pretty knowledgable. I am going into my 4th year and have interned at three different companies. I have learned a wide range of skills and attended many talks/conferences so I have a lot of places to draw inspiration from. 
  - I develop my own technical skills by keeping up to date with what the most popular technologies are, specifically those being adapted by top companies such as React. I typically read online articles/forms, and watch video reviews.
- Timeline
  - This year will be the first phase of the proposal. Beginning September 2017 through till May 2018 we will plan on offering 2-4 technical talks each month. Ideally each weekly meeting will be a tech talk/workshop however we also need to plan on having company visits and other events so we are shooting for a range of 2-4. In the spring semester right before WiCHacks we may offer additional workshop outside of our normal weekly time to help prepare students for their first hackathon.
  - Presentations will be no longer than a 1hr meeting. Ideally talks would be max 30 minutes and workshops would be around an hour. I personally would love to do an IoT hacking workshop. It's really fascinating and covers both CS and Security which will interested a large amount of members. 
  - Beginning next academic school year 2018-19 we will begin the new Projects Committee. We still need to hash out further details on how it will be restructured, but we do know that we will be offering a specific project track focused on new students that want to develop supplementary tech skills to what they are learning in class and better prepare themselves for internships. 

## Planning for the Future

- After Fall 2017 we will re-evaluate the progress of the proposal. What topics have been covered? What have people liked/disliked? What did/didn't work? Based on the answers to this question we will plan accordingly for Spring 2018. At the end of Spring 2018 we will evaluate how people liked tech talks. Something we will need to look into doing is tracking the impact of these tech talks on retention rates for the college and our organization, student confidence in their skills, and how many students were able to get internships. 