Hey, Hubbers. I'm Simon Fish, also going by **boardfish** in these circles. When I tell people that, they assume I'm saying *bored fish*, but that's totally not the case. I thought of that username because all kinds of boards are associated with the great things emblematic of the **software development community** - whiteboards, blackboards, Kanban boards, clipboards, flipboards, you name it, they're all useful in their own ways. Whether that's inspiring **creativity** and **collaboration**, or keeping **documentation** and **organization**, boards are pretty useful. And, well...Fish is my last name. Make of that what you will.

After attending GitHub Universe 2017, I was inspired to join GitHub Campus Experts to do my bit for the software development community. But while many Campus Experts come from a position of **leadership**, I don't have a committee position to my name...yet. Some negative experiences with societies in my first year made me a little more distant and less involved than I'd like to have been, but this year, I'm embracing new **relationships**, **experiences** and **groups**, so it's time to put that drive in the right place and **make a difference**. No time to lose!

I'm very interested in Pong, ping pong, table tennis (wait, they're the same thing?), tennis, and music if I've got the urge. If you catch me, try not to lock eyes with me, else you'll get challenged to ~~a Pokemon battle~~ Mario Kart, probably. I also love pouring time into my setup and workflow - my **[dotfiles](https://github.com/boardfish/.files)** are a little messy in terms of commit history and installation isn't perfect *yet,* but there's inspiration there if you're making your first foray into ricing.

If I had to choose, best emoji is obviously :thinking: until :monocle: is a thing. Is it bad that I don't use them much? :thinking:
