# Community Moderation Case Study
## Nature of the incident
Over 2-3 years ago, Hackers@VT and VTHacks used to be one group of people who liked going to hackathons together and hosting their own hackathon. One member of this group was upset with how the group had been spending too much time on trying to get VTHacks (the hackathon) organized instead of using that time to try to get buses to go to other hackathons. This person had posted a long post on the group's facebook page where he had called out lots of people within the group for not spending their time trying to get resources to go to other hackathons. His facebook post was public for everyone to see within the facebook group; anyone within Virginia Tech could have joined that facebook group as it was to communicate with hackers and other members of the community who are interested in the tech field. 
## Public Reaction
No one within the facebook group had liked or commented on his facebook post. The leaders within the group were surprised by his long facebook post. Other members of the community were also confused/shocked about why he had acted in the way that he had did. At this point, many people had thought that it would be better to have two different groups or teams: one working to go to other hackathons and one that organizes VTHacks.
## Moderation Action
The leaders of the group at that time had asked him to delete his post from the group because they believed that it was unacceptable and that it could cause some of the good people in the community to leave it. He said he would not remove it, and then the moderators deleted the post from the facebook page.
## Outcome
The person that made the post became infuriated and created a website called HokieHacks because he wanted to confuse people and trick them into signing up on HokieHacks (a madeup hackathon website that he made) instead of VTHacks. A Hokie is Virginia Tech's mascot by the way. After he had acted in the way that he did, he was removed from the facebook post because he had reposted his post after the moderators of the group had removed it. Everyone in the community thought that the reasoning for his actions was that he was frustrated with how things were being managed within the group.
## What could be different?
Personally, I would try to approach the person in a more understandable approach. I would have talked to him about how I also agree with how too much time is being spent with VTHacks. Then, I would explain to him that venting and ranting on a public facebook page is not the best way to solve the problem and that approaching the leadership team of the group directly would solve the problem in a much more professional manner. After explaining him my perspective, I would connect him with the leadership of the group to have a friendly conversation regarding the issue. Finally, I would politely ask him to remove his facebook post.
