# Summary of Community Needs 

I am a part of PhaseOne, a tech community on the McMaster campus. I am targeting 800 people, 300 people more than we reached last year, from diverse set of faculties. I believe that the access to technological resources should be available to anyone who is interested in learning and dipping their feet into new technologies. 

During the school year (September to April), there are weekly CodeNights that focus on a different technology each week. Otherwise, a Facebook Group is always open for questions, advice, and resources to learn different technologies. In addition to the facebook group for resources, there are also many resources listed on the PhaseOne website. 

Most of the communication in our community is handled through Facebook. If there are any events, conferences, or CodeNights coming up, the PhaseOne Facebook Group is the first thing most people turn to. 

At current, there is not much of a culture in PhaseOne. We go to CodeNights, we learn new technologies, and we do not necessary find a time outside of CodeNights or general meetings to meet. I want to change this. I want to make people excited and proud to be a part of PhaseOne. And most of all, I want people to see it as a resource to learn new things, meet new people, and gain experience. 

# Proposal 

Fundamentally, I want to build, cultivate, and bind the PhaseOne community together. I want to make it more tightknit. I want people to use PhaseOne not only as a resource to ask questions, but as a resource to meet other people and learn, to talk about app ideas, to talk about development, and to talk about mentorship. I want people to be comfortable in our club, and for them to be themselves. After attending HackCon, I really enjoyed the talk that Joe did about community values and where communities stand, and that is one of the fundamental reasons I got involved in Campus Experts. 

In addition to wanting to build a more tight-knit community, I also want to be able to get technical mentors in and be able to answer questions. I want to members of the community to be able to ask questions about their problems, find out why it went wrong so they can learn for it the next time, and how to properly handle different issues. Personally, I learned GitHub myself last summer. I spent a long time getting confused about the difference between branching, merging, staging, diff-ing (I hope that is a word!). I think having someone to ask would have been really beneficial for me, and I want to be able to provide this mentorship for PhaseOne. 

I would like to expand the size of our community, and I think that can be done by targeting freshman, and letting them know of such opportunities. One effective way to do this is to talk to first year students, or attend their classes, and talk about what PhaseOne offers. I think it is important to also target people in different faculties, and give them a chance to see what it is like, to code, or to create something. I am also leaning towards talks in front of classes, as I think this is the most efficient way to get the word out. Reaching out to these two diverse subsets, will allow PhaseOne to target a wide range of people, and be able to provide access to technologies that students would not otherwise have access too. 

As for timing, I am aiming for starting during the school year. We have one person in charge of PhaseOne CodeNights, who is doing a fantastic job of recruiting companies to our event to teach different technologies. There are some people in our community who are on internship, or who have already graduated, but a lot of them are still active on the Facebook Group providing resource and tutorials on different types of technologies.

# Your Proposal Impact 

 + Target Audience: I am expecting to impact fundamentally, two categories: beginners and people of diverse backgrounds.  
 + Community Needs: I am addressing a lack of mentorship in the current community, and trying to make it more tight-knit. 
 + Resources: I need more mentors. As a part of DeltaHacks, we will be recruiting Teaching Assistants and Research Assistants as technical mentors, which I would be more than happy to help out during the CodeNights and throughout the semester as well.
 + Media:  I would like to use a variety of different marketing resources such as small and quick pitches in front of classes, email blasts, Facebook pages, and a multitude of different resources. 
 	 + For pitches, I plan to practice in front of my friends and family to see where I need improvement. I am going to read up on pitching to large crowds to try to learn new tactics of engaging the audience. I also have a few article handy in terms of the best phrase what we are trying to do, to ensure that our event is open to a large diverse group of people. 
	 + For email blasts, I would use the same tactic as the above, at first - to learn how to best allow for a diverse group of attendees. At HackCon, I saw a lot of different tactics in place in order to ensure that people felt welcome, and I found it really eye-opening. I would also like to talk with administration and asking whether they would be open to helping us reach out to a diverse group of people. 
	 +  For Facebook Pages, I want to create something that is not just informative and talking aabout what PhaseOne is, or what DeltaHacks is, or what we are doing - I want to make something viral. Our Engineering faculty has a Engineering Musical every year, and when it happens, every member of the cast changes their cover photos or profile photos to reflect how proud they are of the event. I believe that it is little things like this, that make people pay attention - because nothing meets the eye more than a ton of people with the same profile picture. I want to create the same synergy within PhaseOne, with the pride and joy that comes from being in a welcome environment. 
	 + I am absolutely open to other formats and other ways of reaching out to new members and informing recurring members of events, however, I am not too familiar with other aspects. I hope reading modules with Campus Experts and other articles on medium will help me think of other ways to reach out to students, or more innovative ways to use the ones that I have thought of. I have also talked to a few fellow hackathon organizers from HackCon, which I would like to explore and learn more about their tactics to building and maintaining a community.  
 + Content Knowledge 
 	 + I am extremely knowledgeable in what DeltaHacks focuses on, applications for social change and social impact. I have spent an incredible amount of time researching how to best set up an environment for social change and allowing participants to thrive. I learnt even more at HackCon, after talking to a diverse group of people who were also interested in social impact hackathons and being able to make a difference in the 24 hours that they are given. I am excited to take these new ideas and put them into action. 
	 + I am not as knowledgeable in *how* to develop a community, and I believe this is where I need the most help. I think the people are there, people who want to learn, but I want to cultivate the members and make them hyped and excited for being a part of our community. This has been something that I have been thinking about for a very long time, and was something that I was not able to articulate until the presentation Joe Nash did at HackCon. I plan to talk with a few community advisors and past members of clubs in how to make a harmonious atmosphere for members to thrive, but also create a sense of pride for being in it. 
 + Timeline 
	 + End of Summer - Finish Campus Experts Training 
	 	 + I want to finish the Campus Experts training before the end of summer so that I have time to sink through the knowledge, and can apply it to what I know about our current community. I want all my actions to be thought out, and to be aiming towards creating a harmonious environment. 
	 + By Second Week of September - Finish Pitching in front of family and friends 
	 	 + I have been a Teaching Assistant twice now, in university, and I have received a lot of feedback on how I present, and how I present myself to a crowd. I have taken all of these to heart, and am improving on them to the best of my ability. I would like to pitch what I want to do with the community and the improvements I want to make, to my family, friends and professors to determine where my I am still lacking skill, and I want to work on that for the remaining of the summer. Following this, I would like to present about the PhaseOne Community to first year students, to be able to get them involved and make them hyped. 
	 + By Mid October - Have done at least 1 Version Control Tutorial 
	 	  + I have been guaranteed a Computer Science TA position for both semesters of this coming school year. I would like to discuss with the professor about the possibility of teaching basic GitHub commands and how to create and update repositories. Having learnt this by myself, I think having someone show you the basics and provide a stepping stone is really informative and would be a great introduction for many first year students. If this does not work out to be during school times or class times, I would like to spend a CodeNight doing this, as I think it is a very important topic to introduce people to. 
	 + By December - Have done at least 1 MLH LocalHost workshop during CodeNights and a CodeStarter Pack Tutorial
	 	 + I learnt about both of these resources during HackCon, which was extremely interesting. I would really like to implement the LocalHost workshops during CodeNights, because I think it is a really good start to getting beginners interested in creating things. 
		 + In regards to CodeStarter Packs, I learnt about this at a workshop at HackCon, that a group of students from a few universities in the United States are working on the basics of a "Hello World" program in all languages, which allows beginners a template to begin working. A lot of the time, people spend a significant amount of time learning how to get the development platform working, and how to get set up, and it is sometimes a very frustrating process. I want to dedicate a single tutorial for getting people started, and getting them excited, so that they no longer have a barrier inhibiting them from doing what they want to do. 
	 + January - DeltaHacks 
	 	 + I want to ensure that the hackathon is a lot more organized this year, in that, participants are not unsure of what to expect. I feel that this is a large deterrent to many attendees at a hackathon, is that they may not know what to expect. While majority of the time in January will be leading up to event will be spent informing mentors and judges of logistical details, I also want to keep the attendees hyped and interested. Thereby, I want to run a Beginner Hackathon Session, where they can help get their devices set up for coding, or get their questions answered, or get to know other beginners who are in the same boat. I also want to run a tutorial to introduce people to the resources and the mentors that we have on hand.  
	+ By mid April - CodeNights, HypeTrain!
		 + I want to keep running and establishing CodeNights, to ensure that members at DeltaHacks want to keep coming out to fun events and have the opportunity to meet a large group of people who are passionate about technology as they are. 
		 + In that regard, I want there to be a CodeNight with a different theme each week. For the ones that use MLH LocalHost, I would like each session to be organized by a different group of organizers, so they all get to experience what it feels like to start an event from scratch and see it play out. This is one of the most rewarding things that I have ever done, and I want to share the experience. 

# Planning for the Future 

I plan to review the impact of the proposal at every large deadline, and potentially more, as I come up with more ideas that I would like to see in the community. I plan to do so using surveys, as to get idea of what the community likes, what they do not, and what they would like to see more of. 

I plan to iterate every time I push out a survey. I think it is important to review the plans, and change accordingly, because if I do not, then I may be spending my time organizing something that the community does not want or need. 

I have learnt a lot from both the Community Assessment and the Community Impact Proposal, and very much look forward to applying these ideas in future. 
