# How GitHub does docs

_The content below is edited excerpts from the recorded talk in the README.md. You can find the full transcript in the [resources](resources/) directory_

### Visualise a content strategy

We have about 10 people right now who write documentation at GitHub. That's people who write end-user documentation and also admin documentation for Enterprise Products. Those things seem very different but they are actually kind of similar in the way that we approach them as documentation, and I'll get into that a little bit later, about how we work through audiences and how we kind of target our documentation for certain audiences. One of the most important things we do here is focus on content strategy. We're really focused on understanding what we're documenting, and why we're documenting it, and who we're documenting it for before we actually start writing.

I think a lot of times with technical documentation, especially when you're documenting software products, or complex procedures, you feel like you should just document everything. You don't know where to start and so you just do it all. You say, "Oh, well here's a feature," or "Here's this very complex thing that I think is important," and so you just write it down, but that's not always what people are looking for. They're not necessarily looking for documenting the UI. They can see it right there. They can use this. They don't need documentation on that. So what we do with our content strategy, we create mind maps using a free tool called MindMup, and that's really just a visual representation of the organization of our articles, so that you can see what kinds of articles you might need to create and who you might need to create them for.

So we start off there, just getting this very nice visual picture of what we want to document. After we create this mind map, we create a more detailed content strategy saying "Well, we're going to need these articles," and "Maybe we'll choose some content in a different article," or "Maybe we should add some screenshots or even a gif here." So we really break it down before we start doing any writing, figure out exactly what we want to do and who we want to do that for.

### Content models

And from that content strategy we focus on creating something called guides. So if you look at our help documentation right now there's some guides and there's some content that's still kind of legacy and it's not really in that format. We're working on it. In the [Q&A](https://github.com/campus-experts/fall-2016/blob/master/docs/technical-writing-answers.md) I gave an example of a good documentation article and a bad one. The bad one is something you may see in our more legacy documentation. But these guides that we create are focused on specific audiences and within those guides we usually have different articles that follow our content models. So those content models are a way to bucket certain content into a different article. So we have a conceptional content model, a procedural content model, and a referential content model.

### Conceptual content model

The conceptual content model is like if you have a concept, a difficult thing, something like pull requests. What are pull requests? Why do you care about them? What kind of thing can you do with them? You would create an article about those, a conceptual article, that would say something about pull requests. You would then link off of that article to more in-depth articles related to the pull request concept. That's an introductory article, and anyone of any experience level can get to it and then create a kind of choose-your-own-adventure of useful information.

### Procedural content model

Then we also have procedural content models that we use to talk about complex procedures that people might want to do. We don't necessarily document every procedure. If it's something that's really simple that the UI kind of self-explains, we don't necessarily document that. What we're looking for is things that might require additional steps, like complex steps or going with navigating to more than one UI screen, things that might require Git commands, as well as using the UI. Things like that, we definitely try to document because we don't want people to be frustrated and leave the product. That's the main thing with this user content, is that you want to make sure that you're documenting things so that people have a good user experience.

### Referential content model

And then our last one is the referential content model that we use. That one is reference information, like limits or requirements you might have. Hardware requirements, things like that that don't necessarily fit in those other content models but are useful things that people need to know for whatever reason. So we kind of work through all of these content models and put these into these task based guides for different audiences. So you might have a task based guide for, for example, organization administrators.

You might have another one for end users. The content within those guides might seem kind of similar because you might talk about concepts within those that are similar. But because you're targeting the audience in those guides, you're able to create articles that are a little different. So like the org admin might have a different procedure than maybe an end user for a similar kind of thing. Take two-factor authentication, for example. Org admins might need to know a little bit more or their content might need to be focused a little differently than end users might.

### Not so frequently asked questions

We don't create FAQs in our documentation. We've found that FAQs are generally something that the user doesn't need or doesn't really look for. It's more things that when you're writing, you don't know what to do with it, and so you kind of just bucket them into FAQ because it's an easier way to approach that. But it's not something that's really useful for users.

## Come in as a beginner & collaborating

A lot of times when you're doing technical writing, you're talking about topics that you don't necessarily understand completely, which is a really scary thing to do. It's always terrifying when you first start writing about something and you're like, "I've never done this before. I don't know how this works. This technology is brand new to me." As a little bit of background, I'm not a developer. I have an English degree. I don't code. So to write about some of these things is a little off-putting for me sometimes, but what it really comes down to is working with other people, doing a lot of research, testing things out as much as you can, and making sure that the viewpoint that you're presenting in your content is also going to be the viewpoint of your user.

So you're saying like, "Well, what do people need to know? What do I need to know to be able to do this certain procedure or to understand this, what do I really need to know to understand it?" So to come in as a beginner and not understand anything, it's not really a scary thing. It shouldn't be. You should look at it as an empowering thing like, "I'm going to learn all this great stuff and then I can share it with other people and help other people." Don't feel like just because you don't know about a topic that you can't write about a topic. It's something that you learn as you write which is a really important thing to remember.

As you're learning a product or a new technology or something, you should keep a running list of things that are confusing to you, or resources that weren't available. "Well, I was trying to learn how to do this Git command or what this Git command did, but I couldn't really find a lot of great information on it.". Then, as you find out the answers, you could then work with other people to validate your answers, to do that research and that testing and then create a blog post that people would then be able to use as they go on that journey also later down the road.

When we're writing our content at GitHub we have the idea of either 30% reviews or 90% reviews. At a 30% review, people look at the structure of the content and the main technical accuracy of it. If you're documenting something and someone looks at it from a technical viewpoint at a 30% review and it's just all wrong, it could be something like you're just going down this very strange path and documenting things in a strange way that don't make sense and you just got the concept all mixed up in your head, at that point people are able to look at it and say, "Hey, I think maybe you're a little confused about this," and they're able to give you feedback so that you can kind of switch gears before you get too invested in it, which is really helpful. I've had that happen many times where I think that I understand a concept but maybe I don't quite understand it. So getting that 30% review helps you not waste as much time if you're not going down the right path. A 90% review is when you have most of the content done and people are able to really do a hard look at that content.

## Tone & Voice

It's really important to understand the voice that you're writing in. There's a ton of stuff written about this. The content guide from 18F and the Mailchimp style guide are both incredibly great resources if you're interested in understanding the difference between voice and tone, and understanding how to create a really great voice for your brand. So, think about that. What's your personal brand? If you're branding for yourself versus writing for an organization, you need to identify who you want to be, what your brand is. If you're writing a more conversational tone versus a more formal tone. We favor a conversational tone with plain language, and that's actually a term. It's plain language. It means language that's free of jargon, very clear, concise language, because you don't want people to have to overcome the language that you use in your documentation. You want the concepts to be the thing that's confusing that they're figuring out, not the language itself.

The other is to understand the difference between voice and tone. Voice is the overall way that you talk about things, and tone applies to the specific situations that you're in that you're writing about. Don't use a super light-hearted flip kind of tone if you're talking about things that users are going to be stressed out about or upset about. If there's catastrophic data loss, don't be like, "Oops, sorry. You lost all your data." That's not a great thing to say. So understanding the difference between those two and writing accordingly is really important.

We don't use a ton of images in our documentation. We use them mostly within procedures to help orient the user so that they know where they're heading in the UI because it gets a little dicey sometimes when you're trying to tell someone, "Well, you click on this button to do this.". A screenshot can help kind of orient them so they have a better feel for where they're going. We use gifs very sparingly. We use them if we're talking about a procedure or concept that is just kind of confusing to explain and maybe a gif might help a little bit.

Something like re-ordering a task list or something, we might put a gif in there because it's a movement with your mouse and it's hard to explain that. It's nice to have images and it's nice to have gifs but we also think a lot about accessibility. When you use those tools, you also have to make sure that you have really helpful alt text for people. Make sure you're really thinking about all the people who could be using your content. If you're writing a blog post, have alt text in there or some kind of description about what that image is or that gif is. People who are using screen readers are then able to really get the heart of your content and understand all of it, and they're not missing out on things.

## GitHub Pages

The rest of the talk deals with using GitHub Pages to set up a blog. You can find a course on using GitHub Pages from the Professional Services team [here](https://services.github.com/on-demand/github-cli/).
