# Technical Writing

### S1 ~00:00.484
> All right. So I'm Jenn Leaver and I am a products help content writer on the documentation team. Can everyone hear me okay? I can see a couple of people nod yes. Okay. Cool. Thank you. So I have been here at GitHub for just over a year and I've been doing technical writing for about ten years. I got my start in electronic trading software, documenting that, so that was more along the lines of like system administration, manuals, that sort of thing, and I really just moved into end-user documentation in the last couple of years. So that's kind of a little about me, just so you have an overview. So today I'm going to kind of talk about how we document things at GitHub because I think it it's-- what we do is an interesting thing and we approach it in a really collaborative team-based way, but this kind of process can be adapted even if you're working on you own as long as you have other people you can run things by. So I'm just going to kind of go over what we do, how we do it, and if you have questions, please feel free to interject or type them in chat if I'm going too fast or you have questions while I'm going through things, and I'm going to leave some time at the end for our questions as well, so.

### S1 ~01:12.883
> So a little bit about our documentation team. We have about 10 people right now who write documentation at GitHub. That's people who write end-user documentation and also admin documentation for Enterprise Products. Those things seem very different but they are actually kind of similar in the way that we approach them as documentation, and I'll get into that a little bit later about how we work through audiences and how we kind of target our documentation for certain audiences. But the main thing that we do with our documentation, it's very important and I talked about this in some of the answers that I-- or the questions that I answered in the Q&A documents that's up. We focus a lot on content strategy which is something that I didn't do in a lot of previous jobs because it wasn't something that really laid out as something that was important. But here at GitHub we're really focused on understanding what we're documenting, and why we're documenting it, and who we're documenting it for before we actually start writing. I think a lot of times with technical documentation, especially when you're documenting software products, or complex procedures, you feel like you should just document everything. You don't know where to start and so you just do it all. You say, "Oh, well here's a CY feature," or "Here's this very complex thing that I think is important," and so you just write it down, but that's not always what people are looking for. They're not necessarily looking for documenting the UI. They can see it right there. They can use this. They don't need documentation on that. So what we do with our content strategy, we create mind maps using a free tool called MindMup, M-I-N-D-M-U-P, and that's really just a visual representation of an organization, like article organization, so that you can see what kinds of articles you might need to create and who you might need to create them for. So we kind of start off there, just getting this very nice visual picture of what we want to document. After we create this mind map, we create a more detailed content strategy saying like, "Well, we're going to need these articles," and "Maybe we'll choose some content in a different article," or "Maybe we should add some screenshots or even a gif here." So we really break it down before we start doing any writing, figure out exactly what we want to do and who we want to do that for. So yeah, we do the mind map, the detailed content strategy.

### S1 ~03:49.838
> And that content strategy we focus on creating something called guides. So if you look at our help documentation right now there's some guides and there's some content that's still kind of Legacy and it's not really in that format. We're working on it [laughter]. So in some of those questions I answered. I gave an example of a good documentation article and a bad one. So the bad one is more of a Legacy thing. But these guides that we create are focused on specific audiences and within those guides we usually have [different?] articles that follow our content models. So those content models are, for us, it's kind of like a way to bucket certain content into a different article. So we have a conceptional content model, a procedural content model, and a referential content model.

### S1 ~04:49.504
> So the conceptual content model is like if you have a concept, a difficult thing, something like pool requests. What are pool requests? Why do you care about them? What kind of thing can you do with them? You would create an article about those, a conceptual article, that would say something like about pool requests. You would include that information in there. You would link off to that. That's just kind of like an introductory for people and it doesn't really depend-- anyone of any experience level can get to that article and find out useful information and then keep kind of doing a choose your own adventure where they can go from there and find more detailed information on more interesting things that you can do with pool requests. So that's kind of the conceptual content model.

### S1 ~05:38.746
> Then we also have procedural content models that we use to talk about complex procedures that people might want to do. We don't necessarily document every procedure. If it's something that's really simple that the UI kind of self-explains, we don't necessarily document that. What we're looking for is things that might require additional steps, like complex steps or going with navigating to more than one UI screen, things that might require Git commands, as well as using the UI. So things like that, we definitely try to document because we don't want people to be frustrated and leave the product. That's the main thing with this user content, is that you want to make sure that you're documenting things so that people have a good user experience. So that's our procedural content model.

### S1 ~06:32.048
> And then our last one is the referential content model that we use. That one is reference information like-- I'm trying to think of something, a good example. Like limits that you might have, like requirements, that kind of thing. Hardware requirements, things like that that don't necessarily fit in those other content models but are useful things that people need to know for whatever reason. So we kind of work through all of these content models and put these into these task based guides for different audiences. So you might have a task based guide, for our examples, organization administrators. You might have another one for end users. The content within those guides might seem kind of similar because you might talk about concepts within those that are similar. But because you're targeting the audience in those guides, you're able to create articles that are a little different. So like the org admin might have a different procedure than maybe an end user for a similar kind of thing. Like something like two-factor authentication, for example, org admins might need to know a little bit more or their content might need to be focused a little differently than end users might. So that's kind of an example of how those would work together.

### S1 ~08:01.407
> And the other thing we do-- or don't do. We don't create FAQs in our documentation. We've found that FAQs are generally something that the user doesn't need or doesn't really look for. It's more things that when you're writing, you don't know what to do with it, and so you kind of just bucket them into FAQ because it's an easier way to approach that. But it's not something that's really useful for users. Does anyone have any questions? I feel like I'm talking very fast, I'm sorry [laughter]. Okay. All right. I'm going to keep going. Okay, I see. No, you're good. Okay, good. Thank you. All right. So that's kind of our general philosophy, how we do things.

### S1 ~08:48.490
> What's more interesting and what a lot of questions I saw on the Q&A were about like, "How do you figure out what to write about?" You feel like you can do this. Sure, you can create an article, you can create a blog post, whatever. But how do you know how to actually-- what do you know to do? So the things that we focus on, like I said, procedures that somebody might need to know how to do something so that they don't leave the product, so that they feel empowered, so that they have a good user experience. Concepts that are really difficult to understand that if you don't understand them, you're going to have a bad user experience. Again, like requirements to use the product and limits on the product. So, for instance, if you can only-- I don't know, upload a certain number of files or something like that, people might need to know those things. So you can document that. Yeah. So those are the mains kinds of things that we look to write about. Again, we don't document the user interface. We try really hard not to do that. There are instances where we do because it's an easy way-- Sorry, to do that, but we try not to. Excuse me, sorry. Let me take a sip of water. The other thing we do, we collaborate with other writers a lot-- sorry, oh man. We pair on content strategy and writing. Matt, you may have to take over for a minute. I'm so sorry.

### S2 ~10:29.655
> No worries, Jenn. Are you okay?

### S3 ~10:36.436
> Okay. Okay. Now, I've got it. So let's see, so we're talking about content strategy and Jenn touched on a couple of things there where you identify who your audience is and that was something that I really-- or we both identified when we were answering the questions that you guys posted-- or everyone posted. You don't necessarily need to create admin-level conversations or topics if it's just geared for an end user, right? They don't need to necessarily know how to manage a team or organization for GitHub if all they're doing is creating a user account and then being brought into a team by an admin. So identifying who your users are, or who your audience is going to be, and then developing these maps or documentation-like pipelines to determine what content you need for your specific users, will really help A, limit the amount of work that you actually have to do because you can scope things out and if some of the content doesn't match the scope of that specific user role, whether it's an admin, an end user, or maybe a client or an external user outside of the normal workflow, then you don't necessarily need to throw that in your-- as a priority in your project or your documentation timeline prior to the release of your product. Which in some cases, not too often, documentation is required before something can be released, but just based on a lot of agile workflows that isn't always something that can happen. But getting your core content out should be the priority as opposed to trying to get everything done prior to release. So kind of like a mitigator of process when you're delivering stuff, is how I would describe how to prioritize your content and then how to handle your releases. So far any questions? So far I know we came into this with 15 which super awesome just because it gave us an opportunity to identify what everyone in the class wanted to know about and then jump into some other topics here.

### S1 ~12:58.205
> Sorry. I'm back. I drank a lot of water. I'm so sorry about that. I'm sure everyone [inaudible] [laughter]. To keep going a little bit with where I was heading down that road, so we work a lot collaboratively as a team to review each other's work and work on the content strategy and with the actual content creation. It's something that everyone can do. You all know the value of working as a team on certain things and it's definitely true with technical documentation to work with other experts or other writers to really get your content into good shape. Because we talked about with some of these Q&As a lot of times when you're doing technical writing, you're talking about topics that you don't necessarily understand completely, which is a really kind of scary thing to do. It's always terrifying when you first start writing about something and you're like, "I've never done this before. I don't know how this works. This technology is brand new to me." As a little bit of background, I'm not a developer. I have an English degree. I don't code. So to write about some of these things is a little off-putting for me sometimes, but what it really comes down to is working with other people, doing a lot of research, testing things out as much as you can, and making sure that the viewpoint that you're presenting in your content is also going to be the viewpoint of your user. So you're saying like, "Well, what do people need to know? What do I need to know to be able to do this certain procedure or to understand this, what do I really need to know to understand it?" So to come in a sort of as a beginner and not understand anything, it's not really a scary thing. It shouldn't be. You should look at it as an empowering thing like, "I'm going to learn all this great stuff and then I can share it with other people and help other people." So don't feel like just because you don't know about a topic that you can't write about a topic. It's something that you learn as you write which is a really important thing to remember. So just little kudos to everyone who is trying to learn things right now.

### S1 ~15:14.342
> And that's something too, if you're not sure about-- if you want to start writing about technical topics and maybe you have a blog or something like that, or you want to create a blog, a great thing to do would be as you're learning a product or a new technology or something, you can just keep a running list of things that are kind of confusing to you like resources that weren't available like, "Well, I was trying to learn how to do this Git command or what this Git command did, but I couldn't really find a lot of great information on it." And you can kind of just keep a running list of things like that. And then, as you find out the answers, you could then work with other people to validate your answers to do that research and that testing and then create a blog post that people would then be able to use as they go on that journey also later down the road. So things like that if you're just looking to create more blog post content, something like that would be great.

### S1 ~16:10.366
> And also when we're writing our content at GitHub we have the idea of either 30% reviews or 90% reviews. So at a 30% review, people look at the structure of the content and the main technical accuracy of it. So if you're documenting something and someone looks at it from a technical viewpoint at a 30% review and it's just all wrong, like you're just going down this very strange path and documenting things in a strange way that don't make sense and you just got the concept all mixed up in your head, at that point people are able to look at it and say, "Hey, I think maybe you're a little confused about this," and they're able to give you feedback so that you can kind of switch gears before you get too invested in it, which is really helpful. I've had that happen many times where I think that I understand a concept but maybe I don't quite understand it. So getting that 30% review helps you not waste as much time if you're not going down the right path. So that's a 30% review. A 90% review is really when you have-- oh, no. I'm going to start coughing again. No. I'm sorry. Is when you have most of the content done and people are able to really do a hard look at that content. So that's kind of how we approach reviews. Yeah. That's about it.

### S1 ~17:43.837
> The other things I wanted to mention, which I talked about in some of the Q&A, were really about voice and tone which is kind of like a-- it's really important to understand the voice that you're writing in. There's a ton of stuff written about this. There are some links in that Q&A document at the end about the content guide from 18F and then the-- I think they call it content style guide for MailChimp, those are both incredibly great resources if you're interested to understand the difference between voice and tone and understand how to create a really great voice for your brand. So, think about that. What's your personal brand? If you're branding for yourself versus writing for an organization, you need to identify who you want to be, what your brand is. If you're writing a more conversational tone versus a more formal tone. We favor a conversational tone with plain language, and that's actually a term [laughter]. It's plain language. But it's really like language that's free of jargon, very clear, concise language because you don't want people to have to overcome the language that you use in your documentation. You want the concepts to be the thing that's confusing that they're figuring out, not the language itself. So that's one thing to definitely keep in mind and just understanding, like I said, the difference between voice and tone. Whereas voice is like the overall way that you talk about things and tone applies to the specific situations that you're in that you're writing about. So don't use a super light-hearted flip kind of tone if you're talking about things that users are going to be stressed out about or upset about. If there's catastrophic data loss, don't be like, "Oops, sorry. You lost all your data." That's not a great thing to say. So understanding the difference between those two and writing accordingly is really important. So yeah, those two links are incredibly helpful. We love both of them and use them a lot at GitHub.

### S1 ~19:53.154
> Yeah, the only other things I was really going to talk about are images and gifs that sort of thing. We don't use a ton of images in our documentation. We use them mostly within procedures to help orient the user so that they know where they're heading in the UI because it gets a little dicey sometimes when you're trying to tell someone, "Well, you click on this button to do this." A screenshot can help kind of orient them so they have a better feel for where they're going. We use gifs very sparingly. We use them if we're talking about a procedure or concept that is just kind of confusing to explain and maybe a gif might help a little bit. Something like re-ordering a task list or something, we might put a gif in there because it's a movement with your mouse and it's hard to explain that. But both of those things-- it's nice to have images and it's nice to have gifs but we also think a lot about accessibility. And having those things, you also have to make sure that you have really helpful alt text for people. So things like that, making sure you're really thinking about all the people who could be using your content. So even if you're writing a blog post, having alt text in there or having some kind of description about what that image is or that gif is so that people who are using screen readers are able to really get the heart of your content and understand all of it and not missing out on things. So having those extra things in there that will help with accessibility will just help your content for everyone. So just be mindful when you're creating content about-- creating it for a very wide audience in that term or that respect. I think that might be all I have off the top of my head. Does anyone have any questions before I hand it over to Matt for good? No? All right. Cool. All right. Matt is all yours. If you start coughing, let me know and I can jump in and help you out too.

### S2 ~22:01.850
> Thank you, Jenn. That was awesome.

### S3 ~22:05.946
> Hey, everyone. So first, awesome job Jenn. You're a little more organized than myself. Just based off your questions I kind of came in with an open mind to either go one of two routes so this is an opportunity for you to kind of decide where we going to go today. We can either talk about open sourcing your documentation or we can talk about setting up a blog using GitHub Pages because it seemed like there was lot of questions kind of revolving around the idea of creating technical content more aligns of say, reviews or discussing a technical concepts and delivering that in some form of like a blog or some form of like outlet. And then open sourcing the documentation was just another idea something of we're of kind of interested in from the education team. Oh, sorry. So I'm not on the documentation team at GitHub. I was a technical writer for about seven years at another organization and kind of made a switch to creating educational content for different-- another company. So now I'm on the educational team at GitHub. Actually professional services training team. Education is different. And so I go around and train people on how to use GitHub. So that what I do. And then in terms of-- one thing that Jenn touched on that I wanted to definitely reiterate was I have never had a job as a technical writer where I was already familiar with the content that I was going to be producing. I immediately jumped into whatever software or whatever I was working on. So if you are worried or concerned about trying to create content on something that you're not, say, an expert on, don't be and just get familiar. Because there are people that have less knowledge about something or less interest in learning about something than you do, and then you can become a subject-matter expert that they look to once you start producing content and delivering it with an assortment of methods.

### S3 ~24:12.036
> So looks like we've got 1 person asking for blog, and then some people who want-- someone else wants both, and then-- yeah, okay. Let's see if we can't bang out both of these at the same time or kind of like in short order. So let me, I'm going to screen share-- if that's all right. Yeah, all right. So let's start off with creating a blog, and then we can-- then from the blog, we can create open source-- open sourcing our documentation and getting people to help out, right? So let's move some stuff around. All right, so the first thing that we can do when creating a blog using GitHub and GitHub Pages-- so if we jump to GitHub Pages-- I did a lot of research on how to do this earlier today, so my history is either how to set it up or shorthand responses and links. So GitHub Pages essentially allows you to create a new static website from a repository on github.com. And we can set that up incredibly quickly. And the way that we're going to do that in this quick example is I'm actually going to fork our repository that is a theme for GitHub Pages and Jekyll called Minimal Mistakes. And yeah, so I don't have everyone shown, but can people see my screen? Are we good? Thumbs up from Joe would be perfect. All right, cool. All right, so Minimal Mistakes is just a theme for Jekyll. And we're going to use that in this example only because I'm kind of familiar with it, and it's incredibly easy to modify. Okay. Awesome. Short plug, we use it on our on-demand training that we've developed for learning GitHub on it at your own pace. So I'm just going to fork this, and because I've got 19 different accounts. I have to just select what account I'm forking it to. And if the internet gods are with me today this won't take long, so here we go. So now I have my own fork of the Minimal Mistakes repo. And if we go to settings and scroll down to get to GitHub Pages we can see that right now I don't have a source assigned to my GitHub Pages. And the first thing I'm going to do here is I'm actually going to change my repository name to my user name which is beardofedu.github.io, and-- so that's my repo name. And then if I go over to this tab-- so if you were to navigate to HTTPS like beardofedu.github.io which is one of the ways the GitHub Pages can work, and then hit enter. I can see that I had Minimal Mistakes just working as a website. So you have two examples of how to use GitHub Pages. One would be creating a repo with the same name that I have, so like your username.github.io. The other option would be if you already have an existing repository-- Oh. I saw a question pop up or something. Where'd that go? There we go [laughter]. Okay. True story, I made a personal site using GitHub Pages when I applied for my position, full disclosure.

### S3 ~28:24.771
> So if we look at this section right here, you see the source. So right now, I have a source because my pages is set up-- or my repo is set up as beardofedu.github.io. It's already identified that this is my GitHub Pages set up-- repo. However, if I was in an existing repository, you could just select this master branch, which would be active, and you could set it to be either your master branch, your GH-pages branch, or a folder called docs that you can create. And it will just automatically develop your content into-- well, there's some styling you would need to do, but you can set up essentially your user documentation from a docs folder. Which, I'm going to be kind of jumpy here, so apologies. This is Facebook's React. Their documentation is completely done in-- that's a new thing, Wilhelm, by the way. The doc folder, I think got implemented in 2, 7, give or take. This right here is the React documentation, and it's all stored on GitHub, which we can see here. There we go. So this is the Facebook React repo and if you go into this docs folder here, we can see all of the documentation is right here. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I used that today. So if we go back to our repo, so we've got Minimal Mistakes set up, or on our computer right now-- or in our repo, rather. And there are a couple of things that we can do to make this site ours and that's essentially-- everything needs to be modified within this _config.ynl file, which is in the main folder of your repo. I'm going to be committing to master which isn't the way you're supposed to work, but I just want to kind of do this quickly and just show you how this can actually work. So there are a couple of things that we can change here to make this work for ourselves. Awesome. Yeah. The secret's safe with you. All right. So we can look at our website here. We can see site title, your name, I'm an amazing person, to somewhere, so these are all things that we need to modify and make them our own, right? So there's a couple of things here that we need to modify. And if we scroll down to right here, the site author section, we can see this your name, I'm an amazing person, and somewhere. So I can change all of these things to be specific to myself. So I'm in Florida. And then, let's see, my name. So I typically just use my user handle. And then you can include an avatar, so I'm going to quickly jump to my avatar, which I conveniently already had loaded. And I can do something like this. So, again, I know I'm jump-- kind of going very quickly. I just kind of want to show how quickly you can set a blog up using Minimal Mistakes and a GitHub repo. And so now if I commit this to Master, like I'm not supposed to, and scroll over-- and GitHub picks up on my changes-- this should rebuild. There we go. All right. So here we can see my Avatar. We can see my Username that I set up or my author name, rather. That short description I made and then I'm in Florida. Site title is still unchanged and that would be located right here on this tTitle. But I'm going to move away from that. I'm going to show you how you can start generating posts.

[silence]
### S3 ~33:27.387
> Yeah. So let's make some posts really quickly. And the way I'm going to do that is first I'm going to open up-- so these are some of the questions that we had from that document that Jenn and I answered. So I'm just going to create a couple of posts based on the questions that we had. And we can do that by creating a new file, creating a folder called _Posts. And then for the naming convention, we go year, month, date and then the title of the blog post. So we could do something like-- technical topics that you aren't confident about, so you can do something like notconfidenttechnical.MD. So we're just ending it as a Markdown file. And so there's a couple of things that we can do. I'm just going to copy all of these and then let's throw in soft wraps so it makes it a little bit cleaner. all right, right now if I were to post this it would use this not confident technical as the title. It would capitalize it. But it just wouldn't-- it really doesn't capture what we're trying to talk about, so Jekyll allows you to do this front matter. So you can set that up by using this three dashes here and I can create my own title within the Markdown file. So we can cut that out and then paste it. And then we can connect this as a new file, again master branching it. And then, now, if we scroll over to our site and it should build eventually-- there we go. So there's my title and then if I click on it, here's all that text that I pasted and there's some cool stuff here that's automatically built into Minimal Mistakes. So all of these shared links are automatically generated. I didn't do anything to fix that or set that up, that was like out of the box functionality and then we can always go back to the home and, I mean, I can do the exact same thing, make another post and it will just kind of like go down the list and create your link of post that you've recently made.

### S3 ~36:27.935
> Can we change those share buttons, though? Probably Minimal Mistakes, rather has a really, really solid documentation and, if I had to guess, yeah, you'd probably be able to modify the way your share buttons look just by going in and modifying the existing style sheets. Yeah. I have a feeling it would probably be under this buttons right there, if I had to guess. I could be wrong. But even the working with posts talks about how to add the share-- yeah, there you go, social sharing links. Yep. Choose the order. Yep. Let's see one that-- that's adding one. And then, yeah, so you can change the way they look here. So, again, like the documentation for Minimal Mistakes is on point. They pretty much answer anything and everything you would want, but, yeah, it looks like you can change the colors of the sharing buttons out of the box. So one last thing I wanted to do really quickly is talk about this quick-start guide that still exists at the top. So that's one of the properties of Minimal Mistakes out of the box, and we can fix that by going to our-- yes, all right. So in our _data folder under navigation.yml, we can see our quick-start guide, so, excuse me, I can edit this to be like my GitHub and something along the lines of like--

[silence]
### S3 ~38:36.446
> And it's a mark-- no it's a YML file, nevermind. So now if I go back to the site and let it update, eventually, this QuickStart guide should change to like my GitHub. I guess I could have been building this locally and not fork it our-- yeah. It'll get there trust me.

### S3 ~39:08.742
> So while we're waiting for that to happen, let's talk about how we can open source our documentation and get people to contribute to content, or just kind of help make your content better or enrich it. So I'm just going to use this React repo to kind of talk about how you could make changes or open source your documentation for other people to get involved. And by using, say, a repository for your website, or to allow other people to create posts, you could essentially have them fork your repo, create posts for the blog, and then create a pull request, or if you wanted to add them as a collaborator, they could just follow along with the GitHub flow as opposed to a fork and pull method. So let's see if we have any issues within React that-- hopefully, they have a label attached-- yeah, here we go. So they have a label within-- yeah. So here we can see on the React issues, they have all of these issues where they're looking for guides, they're looking for documentation on bugs and issues. So they're looking for people to create content based on the needs of their specific projects or products. And they're allowing the community, primarily probably people who are using React, to generate that content for them so that the review cycle and the development time potentially gets reduced. Obviously, you're kind of open-sourcing this and you're having people help you out on their free time. And life does tend to get in the way when it comes to that kind of stuff. Because when you have to decide between working on something that's a passion project as opposed to working on something that pays your bills, you're probably going to pick the bills part. But you can definitely see that people are having conversations about changes to the documentation. And eventually, Facebook or the moderator of the specific repo would be able to push the content that is being developed by their community, essentially for their community. So it gives their community a voice. It allows them to identify what they expect or what they need from this repository, and from the documentation. Which kind of goes back to developing content for different users. It is difficult, especially once you become, say, a subject matter expert on a particular topic to remember some of the issues that you encountered when you were a new user. And this gives you an awesome opportunity to essentially run into those issues all over again. Because you have new users who are constantly, say, jumping into using react and then they have no idea what they need to do to started. Or maybe they're encountering issues that didn't exist when you created your getting started guide. But now that there have been a couple of updates to your software that workflow doesn't necessarily exist from the get-go. One second.

### S3 ~42:35.573
> So I think if you were going to try an open source, either your blog for reviews or talking about technical concepts, just identifying that fact, possibly adding a share button into your repo that talks about-- and then creating issues within your repo. Looking for specific say, SMEs, on specific web technologies, or hardware, or whatever you're trying to discuss within your blog or your sphere of influence, I guess. So let's see if this updated. I hope so. Yeah, all right. So, yeah, if this was my repo and I knew that I could get people to contribute. First, I'd have to re-enable my issues tab [laughter]. And start creating issues that kind of identified what kind of topic I wanted or what kind of content I need or want from my community. And start fostering those conversations and getting people to create pull requests against my repo to start adding it in. So I know it's a really, really brief overview of how you can grade a blog and then how you can open source it. But that's pretty much what you could do if that's what you were trying to do, whether it was to build a website to kind of show off the projects or the content that you're working on in preparation for graduation or just to start to get into a specific community that you're already interested in. If you're interested in, say, info sec, and started just creating a list of the top five things that happened within info sec, whether it was like threats, or major hacks, or something along those lines. Then you just create a blog post about your opinion of it, and what security experts are doing. You could kind of build up this-- a bunch of content based on your specific interests. So that's about it. I'm going to open it up to questions if you have any. If you need me to redo something. I know I kind of blasted through that. Sure, what's up?

### S4 ~45:06.391
> So for themes, is there one you can recommend for a documentation as well, just in general? I've been using the slate one from the [inaudible], but it seems to be a little outdated. Is there the nice, three layer, three column menu, core documentation example kind of thing?

### S2 ~45:27.329
> Yeah, hold on. I don't know. I know GitHub has themes itself, so quick plug for the themes that GitHub has made for GitHub Pages. There's an entire list of Jekyll themes at jekylllthemes.org that I was scrolling through earlier today, and then there's Jekyll themes at IO. I think at the end of the day-- There're not free? Get out of here. I think when it comes to themes, identify your content first and focus on that. Minimal Mistakes is really easy for me to use only because I've been using it, so I'm familiar with the YAML file. It's open-sourced, the documentation's on point, it was really easy to learn it, but I think if you focus on your content, people will come to this site and not-- I would rather see the content be on par as opposed to it looks pretty. Because the looks will fade real quick once the information isn't accurate or it sounds like a sales pitch. And then outside of going back to your site to try to figure out how you made it look like that, I probably won't continue to go back. One of the websites we linked was this I'd Rather Be Writing. It's pretty plain Jane. It's looked like this-- I think it's looked like this since 2011. The look and feel of the website hasn't changed in a very long time. But it's one of the websites that everyone in the technical writing profession has been going to for a long time. So it's really the content that drives your audience as opposed to how your content looks. Or at least that's my opinion.

### S3 ~47:41.495
> Okay. Do you have any more questions?

### S5 ~47:45.431
> It's not a question, but just to say I think it's been an awesome call. Thank you both for the information because it's-- yeah, it's just nice to hear because I'm from not a technical kind of background. And I have worked on projects recently but have had a real bad lack of documentation for anybody that's coming new to the project. And that's caused a hell a lot of problems for me and within my community, so it's just really nice to see the ways we can actually challenge that and make it better. So thank you.

### S6 ~48:18.582
> I do kind of like the way this looks, I'm not going to lie.

### S2 ~48:21.503
> Especially because it's API driven. Oh, and thank you very much.

### S4 ~48:30.014
> So let me ask a content question. So is there a good way that you can kind of get feedback for the technical things that we have [inaudible]. Is there a good place to go? Obviously, you know at GitHub you have quite a few users, and they'll probably tell you if something is wrong. Kind of our university level, is there a good place to start getting some feedback for the [inaudible] we've been doing?

### S1 ~49:02.015
> You mean how to actually find people to review your content, is that what you're asking?

### S4 ~49:08.193
> Yep. Yeah, exactly. Because there don't seem to be any technical writing experts anywhere near me.

### S1 ~49:18.511
> Yeah. I mean if you're looking for review on say, organization, or titles, or the actual-- those building blocks of content, you can, especially going to the-- I think we linked some slack groups, which are really helpful. There's a Write the Jocks slack group. And then there's one for content + UX. And people ask questions in there. If you're looking for feedback on those types of things, like I said, title names, or language that you're using, or how to approach various things if you're looking for that more-- the technical accuracy of the content, I'm not sure. You'd probably need to reach out to people within those of kind technical--

### S4 ~50:04.424
> I meant more like the tone, how you-- it's kind of the problem I have is trying get a technical point across. So it's literally--it is-- nobody knows how something works and we've kind of figured it out. And now we're trying to convey it. So we know how [inaudible] the details, but it's just about, how do you say this one thing? Because there's like a million ways to say it. You can [inaudible] a good voice, you can choose a good tone, all those things that don't really come too naturally, I'd say.

### S1 ~50:31.339
> Right. Yeah. So the slack groups would probably-- would be very helpful if you have questions people are very open and willing to help. I'm in both of them. I like helping people. If say you have an open-source project on GitHub, even opening an issue to address those things and asking for pointed feedback about like, "Well, I have this content and this is what I'm thinking about putting in there but I'm not sure about maybe the way that it's coming across, the voice and tone--" I would say asking for pointed feedback from users. Matt, do you have any other suggestions for--?

### S3 ~51:11.484
> Yeah. So when I first got into technical writing I started using this new software that had just come out from a group that had made a long running technical communications suite blah, blah, blah. There were new. And so they had a forum and there was a lot of communication on the forum. And from my tooling around with the tool, I started creating my own internal documentation that I started to share with my team. And then I started sharing that with people on the forums and getting their opinion on what I was writing. So if you are writing about something specific probably try and find a forum that that specific topic is the main or primary focus. And then just start sharing that within the group. I think if you started to show an interest in kind of documenting things, people would definitely pick up on it and they would be more willing to help out because there are plenty of teams that-- when they hire someone new have to train them on how to use a piece of software, discuss a specific topic. And if they can just be like, "Oh, yeah. Check out this documentation that this guy on the forum made." That's just so much easier for them. So for them to spend 30 minutes to read it and say, "Yeah, this works," perfect. That's where I would go. Go to the places where that is-- the audience is who you're targeting and then just give them the documentation essentially for free for them to hone and make better.

### S4 ~52:51.932
> Yeah. Okay. Thanks.
