The community, codeRIT, can be assessed to be open for everybody to be a part of, but is dominated by those within the computing fields in Rochester Institute of Technology. The amount of people who are a part of the community is mainly male dominated, which we are currently trying to have more females to be aware that the club is open, and encourage them to try out programming. However the attendance of those individuals vary based on the type of meeting we hold. There are around more than a hundred individuals who are part of the community, but mostly those who are within the computing fields. There are multiple resources that people could use to learn about tech, like clubs and tech talks. We also provide small hackathons, for people to get a feel about how the hackathon culture. Childcare is available for those who are in need of it within the campus of the university. It is a nursery that can take care the children of the faculty and in some cases the students. Hours of the club meeting is during times that some individuals may be working, studying, or have other circumstances. I wish we had more meeting days, so we could accommodate everybody who could not meet. The community is mainly filled with people from the computing fields, which I think is great, but could be so much better. I feel that the community should have people from the other majors, which would be great because it could bring ideas that supposedly a computer scientist would not think of.The members in the club got involved with the club because it is mainly educating them about hackathons, learning about coding, and give a brief fundamentals about the area that a speaker is specialized in. The location in which the codeRIT community can meet is mainly a weekly meeting on the campus of Rochester Institute of Technology. The meeting room could house about 40 people, the size of a classroom. It is only accessible on the campus, and luckily we have parking and public transportation available. Luckily for the location, upstate New York just recently had ride sharing available, so we have multiple transportation to the club meeting. The room is big enough and have fairly alright seating for people of all shapes and sizes. There are food and beverages that are offer for the members who attend the meetings, which we mainly offered pizza and soda, but we should take in consideration of people's dietary needs. There are multiple channels that my community uses to communicate with the members, through either e-mails or social media. The benefit of the method of communicating is that we could raise awareness of the club's action. The club is open to new ideas and willing to teach others about anything that a member wants to learn more about, in which we would redirect them to a person who they could learn from.They has not been any disagreements within the community, neither in person or in the channels of communication.  If there were, how I would handle it, I would need to see both sides of the arguments. If it was something technical, I would personally asked a professor, who could understand the topic, and peacefully resolve it. If it was something of a debate, I would highly recommend that the space is an open space, especially to new ideas or voices. 
