My community at Autonomous University of Baja California (UABC, the biggest university in Baja, Mx) is formed by passionate, intelligent, responsible and hard working fellows who
has a lot of dedication around new technologies and projects. I often see them taking online courses, freelancers jobs and coding in their spare time furthermore I think the problem
at my school is that the school fails to keep this talented people interested and up to date on what it's going on at the industry. For example, we have Computer Engineering and the directives at our faculty knows that almost everyone when they graduate search for a software developer job that much often they need to practice and learn more because the program at that career is outdated.
I know that it's our job as future devs to keep us updated but the career program is just so outdated that I have heard that a lot of friends are scared about graduating because they think they are not
prepared so they split the semester's in two just to have a little more time to get "prepared".
As a junior developer in my early 17's I started talking with certain professors just to see what they see about the industry, the campus and the people at my school so I learned that one teacher had an office called "Proyectos UABC" where the teacher select's certain students that have the potential to work at some industry projects with real startups or companies. This projects were as I said real projects where my peers learn about the latest programming languages, get paid and often the companies hire them as part time job because of their excellent job. 
This kind of teachers I think are the ones that needs our community, that have the vision and empathy for new students that are afraid of working because they  don't feel like they are prepared. 
As you guess, I've got selected by the teacher 2 years ago to develop a company project where I got paid and worked with 3 other friends making some real dev magic around web development.