# Tim Fogarty, Fundraising

_The content below is edited excerpts from the recorded talk in the README.md. You can find the full transcript in the [resources](resources/) directory_

## Do you really need that money?

When making a budget, the first question that you have to ask yourself is do you actually need any money? And this is a really important question to ask because you don't want to fall into the trap of thinking that you need something when really, you don't. I speak to a lot of hackathon organizers on a daily basis, and I so often hear things from them like, "Oh, hey. We need to get T-shirts and we need to get stickers." But that's kind of missing the point of why you're getting involved in organizing tech events and organizing a tech community. You don't need those things. What you need is you need something educational and fun for people to get involved with, and T-shirts and stickers are not necessary for that. And you're going to be sinking a lot of money into things which might not be necessary.

And the same goes for things like food or travel reimbursements. You don't need to have food at an event for it to be really, really great. You can choose to do any type of event you want to. You could do an hour-long workshop, and you could run that weekly. And if you're doing hour-long workshops, you definitely don't need food. That's definitely not something that's necessary. It might be nice to try and get people in, but you don't need to do that, and there's plenty of successful events which don't need food or travel reimbursements or anything like that.

Even when it comes to hackathons, there are examples of hack days. There's John Stevenson in London who runs Hack the Tower every month, and all he does for that is just goes and buys £30 worth of sandwiches for people. And if you communicate with people and let them know that, "Hey. That's what's going to happen, and there isn't going to be any food at the event," then people will still come because they're interested in the tech, they're interested in the community, and they're interested in the fun.I's important to understand that you really might not need any money. And you should really think very critically about why you think you need money. You might definitely need money for hosting if you want to set up a website, but even then, you can use GitHub Pages or a Facebook group, and it'll be totally cool, too.

So just really think very critically about that. And it might turn out that like, "Hey. Yes, we do want to have money, and we do want to kind of get something special for some events," but at most universities, they'll have a series of events which don't need any money or funding at all, and then maybe they'll have one or two events which needs a little bit more funding because they want to do something a little bit special.

## Variable budgets

When you do you sit down to think about what you'll actually need money for, make sure to create an itemized list of costs and really go through every single thing that you need to buy and think about that and keep adding to that. So many times, I see budgets which are incomplete and don't really have everything on them, and that completely defeats the purpose of a budget because you need to know exactly how much money you need. Second of all, make several versions of a budget because you might want to think about, "Okay. What's the minimum amount of money that we need to run this event?" And then, "What's our stretch goal? If we had all the money in the world, what would we want to buy?".

For example, if you were doing a 24-hour hackathon, in your baseline budget, you might have food, and that's pretty much it. And then maybe you'll add T-shirts into your stretch goal, or stickers, the nice-to-haves that really arent' a necessity. Also, you want it based on different variables, so make it dynamic and say, "Well, if we had 100 people attend, how much money would we need? If we only had 20 people attend, how much money would we need?" We want to be able to change that and take a look at how the budget would change depending on certain variables. You should keep in mind that a budget is a dynamic document that should be updated and tested all the time throughout organizing whatever event or thing you are trying to fund.

Next up, it's good to start out with guesses and estimates for how much everything will cost, but at the end of the day, you need to get actual quotes for your costs. It's completely pointless having a budget that's only a guess, because you need to know exactly how much money you need to spend. And to know how much money you need to spend, you need to go out and speak to vendors, speak to people who are selling food, or T-shirts, or stickers, or whatever you need to get, and get the actual quotes.

## Budget Visibility

It's really important to keep it readable for your entire organizing team. So that means you should be making notes next to all of your line items to tell people where you got that quote from and what that quote includes, and also making sure that you share it with the rest of your team. Keep it somewhere like Google Drive, Dropbox or another cloud storage provider where everyone can get to it. And finally, just make sure to keep it up-to-date. A budget is not something that you make at the start of planning an event or planning a year's worth of a society and then never look at again and never update again. It's something you should be looking at on a regular basis and updating depending on what the actual costs are.

## Why do sponsors sponsor?

Let's start with the basics of understanding sponsors and looking at why sponsors get involved with events. Why do companies sponsor? Well, the first thing to understand is, fundamentally, this is business. People are not going to sponsor your events out of the kindness of their hearts. And even when they are doing it for a philanthropic reason, they still are going to have metrics and things that they need to show to their bosses. So it's really important to understand that you need to provide something to sponsors because this is a business relationship. And likewise, you should keep in mind that because it's a business relationship, and you're getting into a business relationship with somebody, you will need to treat it like a business relationship, and be professional with them, and keep that in mind.

Generally, there are four reasons that a company will sponsor an event. There's developer evangelism. There's marketing. There's recruitment, and then philanthropy.  It's really important that you target each of these companies appropriately. If you're talking to a developer evangelist, you don't want to email them a bunch of stuff about how good the recruiting at your event is going to be, because they don't care, and it's just going to be annoying for them.

### Developer evangelism

The objective of a developer evangelist is to get developers excited about their platform and to gather feedback and use cases for their platform. Valuable perks for a developer evangelist are providing them with workshops or demos that they can do, giving you an opportunity to distribute coupon codes for their platform, and actual in-person interactions, where they get to talk with students and developers about their product and understand what kind of things they're interested in. So examples of companies which are really interested in developer evangelists are API companies, like Twilio or SendGrid.

### Marketing

The objective of marketing sponsors is to raise brand awareness or change perception of their brands. Valuable things that you can offer them are experiences, like maybe some sort of mini-event at a hackathon. Maybe bring them in to do a dinner or something at your university. Having branding position is really important for them. So getting them on your website and on maybe your T-shirts and hoodies or something would be great, and also opportunities to share positive interactions.

So you would go out and tell people like, "Oh, hey. So in such and such a company really helped us out," etc. Examples of companies which might want to do marketing would be maybe drinks companies, like Red Bull, which want to market to young and student markets. So you notice that maybe they might not necessarily be tech companies. They might be food or drink companies, or something else which provides a product to students. But it might also be tech companies, or it might be companies who are interested in improving their view among students to help with recruitment. Examples might be Capital One, or Bloomberg, or Microsoft.

### Recruitment

Recruitment is somewhere where there is often a lot, a lot of money. This can be easily a very, very large portion of where your sponsored money might come from. And their objective there is simply to recruit the top technical talents and also to improve their branding as a cool employer. Valuable things you could offer them is resumes. Of course, if you do that, you would want to kind of do that in a way which people feel good with. So getting people to opt-in is far more valuable, both for the recruiters and for the students.

Opportunities to provide thought leadership are also valuable. That means maybe coming in and giving a speech about the type of technology that they're working on. This helps set them apart as an interesting place to work. And thirdly, of course, interactions. So coming in and actually meeting people and getting involved with people.

### Philanthropy

Finally, some companies might get involved with philanthropy. Their objective there is to give back to the community. But you also have to keep in mind that it's something that they want to do out of the goodness of their heart, but they're likely to also have some sort of metrics that they want to be able to show that, "Yes. We are doing good," and be able to measure how much good they're doing. They also kind of want to improve their branding and maybe their recruitment pipeline as well. Case studies, branding position and opportunites to provide thought leadership are all valuable.

## How do sponsors choose to sponsor?

There are several different kind of ways that a sponsor might evaluate who they want to get involved with. They want to look at how much money it costs for them to get an impression, or get in touch with a person they're interested in. They want to look at, "Are the people I'm getting in touch with, the attendees of events, are they valuable to me?" And they want to look at who else is sponsoring. And they want to look at, "What I'm actually getting from the event or from the society, is that actually valuable to me, or is it something not very valuable? Maybe it's just a tiny logo on the sleeve which I'm not really that interested in." And then finally, they'll just kind of go with their gut and see, "Is this roughly what I'm interested in?".

When it comes to cost per attendee, and this can be the people who are coming to your events or the people who are registered in your society, but essentially, this is the sponsor looking at their bang for their buck. They want to try and minimize the ratio of the amount of money they're paying versus the number of people that they're reaching. So let's take a quick look at maybe some events as examples.If you take a look at Dreamforce, which is a conference by Salesforce. They have this conference which hundreds of thousands of people attend. I think from a couple years ago, it was about 135,000 attendees, and their cost per sponsorship tier, their top tier is like $1.5 million to sponsor this event. And that comes out to roughly $10 as a cost per attendee. And then down at the very bottom, you're looking at kind of cents per attendee, but you're getting less exposure.

That's a really, really big conference where you get tons and tons of people from all different backgrounds coming. You go for something which is a little bit more targeted, like PyCon, where they have only a couple thousand attendees, and their top tier might be around $50,000. Their cost per attendee is a lot higher, so it's like $25 per attendee. And the reason that sponsors are willing to pay that is because it's a more targeted audience. So you can be sure that you're going to be getting in touch with some really, really good PyCon developers if you're sponsoring PyCon. If that's what you're interested in, you're going to pay a premium to get a targeted audience. And likewise, if you look at kind of a random hackathon, which may be 200 attendees, their top tier might be something around $10,000, depending on where you are in the world. And the cost per attendee there is even higher still, and again, it comes down to paying a premium for a focused audience.

If a company is interested in recruiting from a particular university or interested in recruiting students in general with a tech background, then they're going to pay a premium to want to get involved with their targeted audience. They want to minimize their cost per attendee, but they're willing to pay more if there's a more focused audience. So the thing there is they want to look at kind of how valuable is each attendee. They want to look at the fit, so are they potential customers or do we want to recruit them? How difficult is it to get in touch with them in general? So how hard is it to maybe get in touch with students at this university? Maybe there are dozens and dozens of events that they already sponsor, so it's not that difficult to get in touch. Maybe you are the only tech society on campus, so they have to go through you, and then they're going to be willing to pay a premium again. And then their potential. Are these people going to eventually become high-income people who might want to buy their products? Are they going to be good people to hire two years down the line to get into contact with now?

Thirdly, they're going to look at sponsor landscape. So they're going to look at many sponsors there are, how "good" are the other sponsors, and how much value are they getting from getting involved with this sponsor landscape. So the question here is which kind of website is more valuable for a sponsor to be on? One where they're surrounded by hundreds of other sponsors or one where there are just a couple of good brands there with them? It might depend on what people are looking for, but you should realize that sponsors are willing to pay for exclusivity, and if you limit the number of sponsors to 3, 4, 5, 10, etc., limiting the number of sponsors means that you can charge a premium for being involved in a large way.

Next, they also, of course, look at the actual value of the package that you're selling them. They're going to say, "Hey. I might be getting in touch with such and such many people, but am I actually getting my money's worth for getting in touch with those people? Am I going to have some good interactions? Am I only going to have a tiny logo on the sleeve, or am I going to actually go there in person and speak to these people and really get good interactions with them?" So direct contributions to attendee's experiences, for example, GitHub bought me this meal, have been shown to be more effective as a sponsorship mechanism than just having their logo on their website. So linking sponsors to specific things that attendees are getting is a really great way of giving sponsors their money's worth. And finally, the last thing, honestly, that people look into is just their guts and like, "Does this feel like something that I should be sponsoring?" And that just comes down to feeling.

## How sponsors pay

The first thing you have to understand is that usually, the people who are handling the sponsorship and the people who are handling the budget are different people. So the person you're talking to, to try and convince, "Hey. You should sponsor our event", is not the person who can decide how much to spend on things. That is governed usually by their boss or their boss's boss. So an important consequence of that is that when you're talking to somebody at a company and you're trying to get them to sponsor, you need to bear in mind that you need to convince them, but you might also need to convince the rest of their team or their boss.

So once you convince them, you want to be able to give them the resources necessary to go back to their team and say, "Hey. This is a really good opportunity for us". And likewise, if you want to develop a long-term relationship, you want to be able to give them the feedback and show them, "Hey. This year, you managed to do X, Y, and Z, and it was really, really effective", so they can go back to their team and say, "We should definitely do this again next year".

### Quarterly budgets

It's also really important to understand that businesses operate on quarterly budgets. That means they split up the year into three-month periods. And they will generate a budget for the year, but they will also generate budgets for each single quarter. So every new quarter, a team will get a new quarterly budget, and then they'll start to know roughly what they'll be able to spend in each quarter. So two of the best times to get money is at the start of Q1 because it's the start of the year, start of the new quarter, and they have a bunch of new money that they can play with. And they can be like, "Oh, great. We want to be able to throw money here, here, here." And they have money, and they want to use it. But it's also really great to get in touch at the end of a quarter or at the end of Q4 because one of the strange things about business is that if you don't spend all of the money in your budget, you're going to get a smaller budget next year. So you need to be able to spend everything in your budget.

So you get this weird phenomena at the end of Q4, where companies are just trying to dump money as quickly as they can into wherever they can. So that's a great time to talk to people because they might have some leftover money. They might not. They might have already spent everything, but if they have any leftover money, they want to get rid of that as quickly as possible so that they can justify having a larger budget starting in Q1. So that's a really useful thing to know that it's kind of seasonal. It goes by quarters, and you should remind yourself that different businesses and different companies have different quarters. So depending on what country you're in, companies might work on a different quarterly season.

And also, companies, in general, can choose to run on any quarters they want. So you get some companies who just run on completely different quarters. Maybe because their parent company is in the US, or their parent company is in another country, or they just choose to do it for some reason. And it is totally fine for you to ask somebody who you're talking to about sponsorship as like, "Oh, hey. When is your new quarter coming? When does your quarter end? When are you going to have your next quarter's budget?" Because if they come to you and they say, "Hey. We don't have any money right now for your society or for your events," you can say, "Oh, okay. Well, when will you know about your next quarter?" Then you will have a date, and you will be able to get in touch with them when they get then next quarterly budget.

Another thing to bear in mind is that recruiting budgets are highly, highly seasonal. So if a company is recruiting for a summer internship, then they are going to be spending the most of the money on marketing for that internship during the autumn of the previous year. So around this time is when they'll be kind of finishing up spending all of their money for recruiting for the summer internship. So starting kind of 2017, recruiters aren't going to be putting that much money into internship programs, but they will have been dumping money this semester because of the way that recruiting works seasonally.

### Billing cycles

The final thing that's really, really important to understand is that companies work on billing cycles, and billing cycles take time. As soon as you close your sponsor and they say, "Yes. We really want to sponsor. Send us an invoice," then you're going to send them an invoice, and usually you will send them a net 30 invoice, which means that you ask them to pay the amount in 30 days. That should be a clue for you that you're not going to get the money straight away. It's going to take 30 days.

Even then, if it's a large company, you might have to go through a process where they have to fill out something called a purchase order, and then you invoice them using the purchase order. And that can take weeks and weeks to actually get started, and then when you actually finally invoice them, again, it's an extra 30 days that it might take. So it could take a long time for the money to actually come through. And it's really important to understand that, because you might need a cash flow.

You want to be keeping track of your budget and how much money is coming in, but you also need to make sure to keep track of your actual cash flow. When will I actually be getting the money? And again, this is totally fine to talk to your sponsors about. Ask them, "How does the invoicing system work? When am I likely to get the money? Do you know because we need to know for cash flow reasons." Totally cool to ask that. But keep in mind that you might need to get cash flow, and one thing you can do is maybe talk to your university or talk to you student's union, and they maybe might be able to help out with cash flow.

## Sponsorship process

Many people think that going and seeing the sponsors is their first step, but that's not true at all. You want to make some progress and then go see the sponsors. Before you go and see the sponsors, you should definitely have a clear vision for what you want to achieve, and it definitely helps if you have some sort of website, because people just tend to take you more seriously if you have a website. Which is funny, because it's so easy to set up a website, but it's true. People do take that seriously. You want to have a little bit of traction, so you want to be able to show, "Hey, we've already got 25 students signed up for this society". Or, "We've had 25 students pre-register for this event", or, "We have such and such many people on our Facebook page", or something like that. Just showing that like, hey there is some interest here, and we are actually doing this thing, and it's a real thing.

Then, there's a couple of things which might not be locked down, like maybe the venue, or having other sponsors. But having those things, or having at least progress on those things, is helpful to show to other sponsors and say, "Yes, we're moving forward, and this is actually going to happen". Because if I'm a sponsor, and if somebody gets in touch with me, or sends me an email, and, it's not really clear what they are doing, they don't have a website, they don't have any venue or any people in their society, or something like that, then I'm going to say, "Hey you need to actually start working on these things and then come back to me when I know you're actually going to have them".

Next step is you want to make sure that you actually know where the money goes. It's a good thing that you already have your budget sorted and you know exactly what you're spending your money on. So just remind yourself you need to double check your budget, and know exactly where the money goes, and then you can design a sponsorship prospectus.

And there are several types of kind of prospectuses that you might send out to sponsors, to show them the opportunities of getting involved with your society or your event. There's maybe a standard tiers document, you might do a catalog or PowerPoint deck, another might be custom proposals. And you can choose to use any one of these, whichever ones make sense for you. With the standard tiers document, it's usually one or two pages long, and it just provides a brief overview of what the event or society is doing and the sponsorship tiers for working with that event or society. This is a really quick and easy one for people that are able to get the information they need and make quick decisions.

Next you might want to have a PowerPoint deck, which is usually a bit longer and it might go into more detail. This is maybe good if say, a company isn't really involved with hackathons that much, or isn't involved with tech societies, and they don't really understand exactly what's going on, it can give them a little bit more background on exactly what you are planning on doing and what your aims are. And that's good for people who don't really know that much about what you're up to. Then finally you can have a custom proposal where you go into more detail about tailoring the sponsorship tier specifically for the sponsor that you're talking to. And again it will provide an overview of the event and outlines the custom package and the price of the custom package.

Again, it's important to send these kinds of things over because the person who is deciding, you need to convince them, but they also need to take these materials and send them back to their team and send them back to their boss, and convince them that this is something that is worth spending their money on, because they need to be able to get the money for you. Custom proposals are great if you're working with low volume sponsors, like 10 sponsors, then you should be creating a customer proposal for every single sponsor, because it feels nice and it's very easy to do, and it makes sure that people feel good working with you.

## Sponsorship tiers

So then a question is what should I be making my tiers? How much should I be charging for each different tier? Well imagine if your overall budget is 20,000 euro. Then these might be some example tier sizes, and the idea here is you have a progression from maybe 10% to 20% to 50%, so that should be roughly what you're thinking of for your tier sizes. When we think about it in that terms, then you're able to know exactly how many sponsors you're going to need to reach your budget. So I could have one top tier sponsor and maybe five of the bottom tier sponsors, or I could have one top tier sponsor, two middle tier sponsors and one bottom tier sponsor, and be able to reach my budget. And you're able to know exactly what you need to sell, and you're going to have a certain number of sponsors.

Cool, and when it comes to generating your sponsor tiers, and the packages that people are able to buy from you, here are some good sponsor perks that you might include in that. So for example, if you're at a hackathon, then you might offer to have somebody be able to give a prize or challenge. You might want to offer people some sort of recruiting access. Again, it's really great to get students to actually opt into that, because that's targeted again, so it's actually more valuable if the students are opting in. And then students don't get unsolicited emails from recruiters they're not interested in. And things like coming in to give a speech, or running a workshop for you, or maybe giving a dinner, or buying drinks for the society or something like that, are also some really nice things that you could do. And of course there's branding and other things around that as well.

Of course, there are some things that will always need to include in your sponsorship prospectus. So you want to make sure that it's clear what the name of your event or society is, and when any events are happening. If you're doing an event, you want to have the actual date there. So often people forget that, and that is some vital piece of information. Same with location, vital piece of information, because so often the first thing that sponsors are going to look at is like, "Oh, somebody sent me a sponsorship prospectus. Am I actually going to be able to make this event? Do we have the resources? Is somebody available on that day, and am I able to travel there?" And if not, then you're wasting your time and then you want them to just come out and say, "Sorry we're not able to do it". And if so, then they're able to actually say, "Oh yes I can do those. Let me read more and let me find out more about this event". So you definitely want to make sure you're including all this information, including things like projected attendance, how many people are in your society, how many people are you planning on having at a certain event, your website URL, and your contact details. And you need to make sure that you have these front and center, on the front page.

So let's talk a little bit more about sponsorship tiers. People often ask, "How many tiers should I have? How much should they be? What kind of perks should I have here?". When it comes to how many tiers you should have, in general you just want to have three tiers. We're going to have one very cheap tier, one in the middle tier, and one very expensive tier. And the reason for this is anchor pricing. People are more likely to go for the middle tier because they don't want to be cheap and get the lowest thing and they don't want to overspend and get the highest thing. So people are more likely to go for the middle tier, which is just fine. And you should keep that in mind that that's what you're looking at.

Sometimes maybe you add a fourth and have that be the presenting partner. So there's some leeway in how you can do that. How much should your tiers be? Well, there's no easy answer. You want to look at cost per attendee. You want to see what your budget is, but if you're thinking about the three tiers, then having something like 10%, 20%, 40%, or something like 15%, 30%, 50% of your total budget, those are some pretty good numbers for your tiers for sponsoring a society or an event. But it's important to look at your budget and see, how much money do I need to raise?

And then what kind of things should you apply to each tier? The important thing to realize is that sponsors will value whatever you say is valuable. If it comes to doing a workshop, you say that your workshops are valuable, then you can put that on the top tier and they'll be, "Okay, great, that's going to be really valuable for me". When you say that resumes are valuable and you put that in the top tier, then they'll think that is valuable. You want to make sure that every step up each tier, you're adding something that is actually justifying the extra costs and adding something that is valuable. But getting involved in an event or with a society is a valuable thing in general, and you shouldn't worry that, oh, I'm not sure if this is valuable enough, and that's often times what people are worried about. The other thing that I would mention there is that tiers are just a guideline, they are to show people what is useful and what is available. But at the end of the day, you're going to end up negotiating a custom package for each sponsor.

## Sponsorship process

So let's take a look at how you get in touch with sponsors and negotiate that custom package. So stop me if your sponsored process sounds roughly like email a random company, something happens in the middle, and then you get lots and lots of money. That's what it looks like to a lot of people, but this is ridiculous. This makes no sense whatsoever. You need to have a solid sponsorship process that you're able to follow and make sure that you can close effectively. One of the questions on the issue on GitHub asked them what to do if we're kind of running out of sponsors because there are so many societies and events and stuff like that that there's not enough sponsors or sponsorship to go around. Well in the hackathon world, we hear this a lot of like, "Hey, there aren't enough sponsors because we've got 250 events in the season now. There just isn't enough money to go around". P

People were saying back when there were nine events in the season, some people were saying, "Oh, there's not enough sponsorship to go around with nine events". We've managed to grow as a community to 250 events, and people are still saying, "Oh, no. There isn't enough sponsorship to go around." And, honestly the limiting factor is probably not going to be the amount of sponsors. It's going to be your ability to close sponsorship and your sponsorship process. And because so many times the sponsors for events and societies are local companies, which aren't going to be sponsoring many events or societies globally, so your sponsorship process is going to really, really help to make sure that you are actually getting the sponsorship that you need. This is the killer bullet.

_Check out the rest of the transcript for an example sponsorship process and some tips and tricks.._
