As previously mentioned, I am not an engineering student. Upon arriving to university, I frankly found engineering students to be intimidating, their technobabble hard to understand, and their department not the most welcoming to outside students, even though I was taking "Introduction to Programming." I spent two years in this sort of situation, slowly working my way through the computer science minor, without finding a community I could call my own.
Not finding a community and the end of a four year relationship left me feeling completely isolated during my second year. As a result, I decided the best thing I could do was run away to England for a year as an exchange student. This remains one of the best decisions of my life, for numerous reasons, but the focus at the moment is on community. At the University of Sheffield, I found a group of students with diverse interests who all enjoyed programming, but didn't make it the sole focus of their life. They were welcoming to me as someone with beginner's skills, and supported my development as both a person and a programmer. By the end of the year, I felt like I belonged. It was the first time in a long while, and I crave that feeling again.
Now home, I want to find students like me, who enjoy and want to learn more about programming, computers, and hacking, but aren't sure how to find their way in a world that often seems exclusionary. I don't know how many I might find, but a small group of 5-20 would be enough to feel I've made a difference. 
Ultimately, I believe my community is ideally composed of what would probably be best labeled as "non-traditional" CS students. I, for example, am technically a CS student, taking CS classes, but coming from a linguistic background. The future members of my commmunity may not yet be taking CS classes, or may not have any CS experience, but I would hope to introduce them to CS and the satisfaction a working program brings. 
Ideally, I would like to do this through running MLH localhost events, intro to programming tutorial workshops, and regular meet ups for these non traditional students. I would advertise in all areas of campus, not just those frequented by engineering students. When I gather interest, it would hopefully lead to the creation of a club/society, that would then self propagate after my graduation (the exact date of which is currently uncertain).
