Summary 
	After creating the community assessment, I have learned many things about my community. To start off, here are the demographics of my community. There are about 160 community members that are actively collaborating and participating in clubs, events, and other things on campus. We are a very diverse group of students that come from all different places around the Midwest and of all skill levels. My proposal is going to target to a much larger group than the 160 people mentioned above. I am targeting right about the 300 range. I would like to invite underclassmen a chance to learn from skilled entrepreneurs and want them to grow in their field. There are a couple resources that I would like to mention for this community. First off there is a co-working space that is open 24 hours, 7 days a week for startups, students, and entrepreneurs to use. Next is the entrepreneurial club on campus. This club brings talented and self-motivated students to work on their idea. The number one way in which we communicate is through Facebook. Many of these clubs have pages which students follow and receive updates. Some other ways that we communicate are through our slack channel and email list serve. 

Proposal 
	My proposal is simple. I want to create clubs that run themselves even after the club leader’s graduate. Clubs on campus such as Web development, mobile development, ISU Security, competitive programming, and entrepreneurial club are all organized by students. Often times it is very hard to find replacements for these club leaders and it slowly causes the clubs to disappear and reappear. The ways in which I would like to help this community grow is by persuading the younger crowd, the beginners, and the students in IT to show them the endless opportunities in this field. In the community assessment, my number one goal out of all this is for students to make connections to employers and get taught the skills needed in the workforce. There are many ways that I will go about this. For students that want to be taught the necessary skills in the workforce, I want to propose a curriculum the mobile and web development club leaders and teach them the necessary skills that are essential for the force. For students that want to make connections with employers, I want to start interacting with local software companies that have time to mentor students in these fields.  

Proposals Impact
	Target audience: Self-motivated students that are passionate about technology and people that have an interest in entrepreneurship.
	Community Needs: Student run tech and entrepreneurial clubs on campus that thrive even after the club leader’s graduate. 
	Resources: The number once resource I need is an advocate from each on my local software companies that are willing to mentor students. The way I will go about this is to meet with companies and propose a new system for hiring students in the tech industry. 
	Content Knowledge: I feel confident in my knowledge about my community and what needs to be done. I’ve met with administration, the dean, and older students about this and how we are going to propose this to companies. 
	Timeline: My first goal is to change the curriculum of what is taught in these clubs. I want students to learn the most valuable skills needed and for that to be done I am still in the process of developing this. Some deadlines I have set for the proposed change in curriculum are by the end of the 1st semester (December 15th 2017) I would like to see the curriculum in effect. All the changes mentioned in the proposal above should take effect the 2nd semester (January 20th 2018). 
Planning for the future
	The changes requested above will be constantly changing. To start measuring the success of this, I want to first set a baseline of what we currently teach. Then as we gradually implement these changes we will survey students and see what their skill levels are after attending these club events. For the mentorship proposal, the best way to measure this is to have mentors come out and survey them on what they can do to help the community. 
